51. What does the Canadian flag look like?
Red and white with provincial emblems.
Red and white with a beaver.
White with a red border on each end and a red maple leaf in the centre. (correct answer)
Red with a white maple leaf.
52. What does the term “responsible government” mean?
Each person in each electoral district is responsible for voting.
The Governor General is responsible for the actions of the Prime Minister.
The ministers of the Crown must have the support of a majority of the elected representatives in order to govern. (correct answer)
All Canadians are responsible for each other.
53. What does the word “Inuit” mean?
"Eskimo" in Inuktitut language.
"Home" in English.
"The people" in the Inuktitut language. (correct answer)
"The Arctic Land" in Inuktitut language.
54. What happened at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham?
The Voyagers battled with the British for fur trading rights
Americans fought the United Empire Loyalists during the American Revolution
The British defeated the French marking the end of France's empire in America (correct answer)
The French defeated the British in a battle for Quebec
55. What is a Francophone?
A person who speaks English as their first language
A smartphone designed by the Canadian company RIM
A person who speaks French as their first language (correct answer)
The first phone in Canada, invented by Alexander Graham Bell
56. What is a major river in Quebec?
Fraser River
St. Lawrence River (correct answer)
Niagara
Hudson's Bay.
57. What is a majority government?
When the party in power holds about one third of the seats in the House of Commons
When the party in power holds about one quarter of the seats in the House of Commons.
When the part in power holds at least half of the seats in the Senate.
When the party in power holds at least half of the seats in the House of Commons. (correct answer)
58. What is a voter information card?
Tells you who the candidates are in your electoral district.
Tells you what province to vote in.
A form that tells you when and where to vote. (correct answer)
A form that lets you know your voting time.
59. What is Canada’s national winter sport?
Golf.
Nordic skiing.
Lacrosse.
Hockey. (correct answer)
60. What is Canada’s system of government called?
Dictatorship.
Parliamentary government. (correct answer)
Military Rule.
Communism.
61. What is meant by the equality of women and men?
Men and women are equal under the law. (correct answer)
Men and women must both do housework.
Women may now go to school and enter the professional workforce.
A woman may now become Prime Minister.
62. What is the “head tax”?
Race-based entry fee charged for Chinese entering Canada. (correct answer)
Fee charged for anyone entering Canada after 1900.
A tax imposed on beer beginning in 1867.
Fee charged for moving westward in the early 1900s.
63. What is the capital city of Canada?
Ottawa. (correct answer)
Toronto.
Montreal.
Hull.
64. What is the difference between the role of the Sovereign and that of the Prime Minister?
The Sovereign is Head of State, the Prime Minister oversees provincial policies.
The Sovereign is the guardian of Constitutional freedoms, the Prime Minister selects the Cabinet ministers and is responsible for operations and policy of government. (correct answer)
The Sovereign links Canada to 52 other nations and the Prime Minister is the guardian of Constitutional freedoms.
The Sovereign is the symbol of Canadian sovereignty and the Prime Minister is her aide.
65. What is the government of all of Canada called?
National assembly.
Legislature.
Federal. (correct answer)
Council.
66. What is the highest court in Canada?
The Queen's Court
The Senate Court of Canada
The Supreme Court of Canada (correct answer)
The Crown Court of Canada
67. What is the highest military honour a Canadian can receive?
Purple Cross.
Badge of Courage.
Order of Merit.
Victoria Cross. (correct answer)
68. What is the largest religious affiliation in Canada?
Catholic. (correct answer)
Muslim.
Jewish.
Hindu.
69. What is the meaning of the Remembrance Day poppy?
To remember our Sovereign, Queen Elizabeth II.
To celebrate Confederation.
To honour Prime Ministers who have died.
To remember the sacrifice of Canadians who have served or died in wars up to the present day. (correct answer)
70. What is the name of the Governor General?
David Johnston.
Mary Simon. (correct answer)
Richard Wagner.
Julie Payette
71. What is the name of the Prime Minister of Canada and his/her party?
Justin Trudeau (Liberal Party). (correct answer)
Stephen Harper (Conservative Party).
Thomas Mulcair (New Democratic Party).
Christie Clark (Liberal Party).
72. What is the name of the Royal Anthem of Canada?
O Canada.
God Save the Queen (or King). (correct answer)
La Marseillaise
The Star-Spangled Banner.
73. What is the role of the courts in Canada?
To enforce the law.
To guide people in our society.
To settle disputes. (correct answer)
To express values and beliefs of Canadians.
74. What is the role of the Opposition parties?
To assist the Prime Minister.
To sign bills.
To oppose or try to improve government proposals. (correct answer)
To put forward bills to be passed.
75. What is the significance of the discovery of insulin by Sir Frederick Banting and Charles Best?
Insulin is a hormone that permits you to eat anything you wish.
Insulin has saved 16 million lives worldwide. (correct answer)
Discovering insulin opened the doors to more discoveries.
Discovering insulin made Drs. Banting and Best famous.
76. What part of the Constitution legally protects the basic rights and freedoms of all Canadians?
The British Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
The Canadian Charter of Rights.
The Canadian Charter of Freedoms.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. (correct answer)
77. What percentage of Aboriginal people are First Nations?
30%.
6%.
50%.
65%. (correct answer)
78. What should you do if you do not receive a voter information card telling you when and where to vote?
Go to the police station.
Call your Member of Parliament.
Assume you cannot vote.
Call Elections Canada or visit their website. (correct answer)
79. What song is Canada’s national anthem?
God Save the Queen.
O Canada. (correct answer)
Star Spangled Banner.
Amazing Grace.
80. What three oceans border Canada?
Atlantic, Arctic and Bering.
Atlantic, Arctic and Pacific. (correct answer)
Pacific, Indian and Atlantic.
Hudson, Pacific and Atlantic.
81. What was the “Underground Railroad”?
An anti-slavery network that helped thousands of slaves escape the United States and settle in Canada (correct answer)
A railroad through the Rockies that was mainly through mountain tunnels
A network fur traders used to transport beaver pelts to the United States
The first underground subway tunnel in Toronto
82. What was the significance of June 6, 1944 invasion of Normandy?
It led to the establishment of the Juno Awards.
It liberated North Africa from Nazi occupation.
Canadians made a significant contribution to the defeat of Nazism and Fascism in Europe during the Second World War. (correct answer)
It resulted in the forcible relocation of Canadians of Japanese origin.
83. What was the Women’s Suffrage Movement?
The effort by women to achieve the right to vote. (correct answer)
The effort by women to participate in military service.
An unsuccessful movement to get husbands to do housework.
The effort by women to be in Parliament.
84. What will you promise when you take the Oath of Citizenship?
Pledge allegiance to the Queen, observe the laws of Canada and fulfil the duties of a Canadian. (correct answer)
Pledge to be faithful to the Queen.
Promise to observe the laws of Canada.
Fulfil duties as a Canadian citizen.
85. What year did Newfoundland and Labrador join Canada?
1867
1955
1949 (correct answer)
1880
86. What year was Confederation?
1867. (correct answer)
1871.
1898.
1864.
87. When asked, who must you tell how you voted in a federal election?
Your employer.
No one. (correct answer)
A police officer.
An Elections Canada official.
88. When did the British North America Act come into effect?
1871.
1898.
1867. (correct answer)
1905.
89. When did the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms become part of the Canadian Constitution?
1867.
1905.
1982. (correct answer)
1878.
90. When is Canada Day and what does it celebrate?
June 15 of each year to celebrate the anniversary of Confederation.
August 8th of each year to celebrate the joining of British Columbia to Confederation.
We celebrate the anniversary of Confederation July 1st of each year. (correct answer)
May 21st of each year to remember Queen Victoria.
91. When is Remembrance Day celebrated?
July 1st
October 1st.
November 11th. (correct answer)
December 25th
92. When must federal elections be held?
About every 4 years.
On the third Monday in October every four years following the most recent general election. (correct answer)
Whenever the Prime Minister calls the election.
When the MPs want a new Prime Minister.
93. When you vote on election day, what do you do?
Go to the voting station, tell them who you are and mark your X. Give the ballot back to the attendant.
Go to the voting station, remove 1 ballot and after marking your X deposit it in the ballot box.
Go to the voting station, take your voter's card with proof if identity, highlight your choice on the ballot and deposit it in the box.
Go to the voting station with your voter's card and ID, mark an X next to your chosen candidate, fold the ballot and present it to the poll officials who will tear off the ballot number and give you the ballot to deposit in the box (correct answer)
94. Where are the Great Lakes?
Between Ontario and the United States (correct answer)
Manitoba.
Northern Quebec.
Atlantic Canada.
95. Where are the Parliament Buildings located?
Ottawa. (correct answer)
Quebec City.
Hull.
Toronto.
96. Where do most French-speaking Canadians live?
Ontario.
Nova Scotia.
Quebec. (correct answer)
Prince Edward Island.
97. Where does Canada rank in the world’s largest countries?
First
Second (correct answer)
Third
Fourth
98. Which Act granted, for the first time in Canada, legislative assemblies elected by the people?
The Constitutional Act of 1867.
The Constitutional Act of 1791. (correct answer)
The Constitutional Act of 1982.
The Constitutional Act of 2010.
99. Which animal is an official symbol of Canada?
The moose.
The hawk.
The beaver. (correct answer)
The deer.
100. Which country borders Canada on the south?
United States of America. (correct answer)
Central America.
Mexico.
Washington.
